VPC with a single public subnet See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Scenario1.html for this lab excerise 

The configuration for this scenario includes a virtual private cloud (VPC) with a single public subnet, and an internet gateway to enable communication over the internet. 
We recommend this configuration if you need to run a single-tier, public-facing web application, such as a blog or a simple website.

The configuration for this scenario includes the following:

    A virtual private cloud (VPC) with a size /16 IPv4 CIDR block (example: 10.0.0.0/16). This provides 65,536 private IPv4 addresses.

    A subnet with a size /24 IPv4 CIDR block (example: 10.0.0.0/24). This provides 256 private IPv4 addresses.

    An internet gateway. This connects the VPC to the internet and to other AWS services.

    An instance with a private IPv4 address in the subnet range (example: 10.0.0.6), which enables the instance to communicate with other instances in the VPC, and an Elastic IPv4 address (example: 198.51.100.2), which is a public IPv4 address that enables the instance to connect to the internet and to be reached from the internet.

    A custom route table associated with the subnet. The route table entries enable instances in the subnet to use IPv4 to communicate with other instances in the VPC, and to communicate directly over the internet. A subnet that's associated with a route table that has a route to an internet gateway is known as a public subnet.


Routing

Your VPC has an implied router (shown in the configuration diagram above). 
In this scenario, Amazon VPC creates a custom route table that routes all traffic destined for an address outside the VPC to the internet gateway, 
and associates this route table with the subnet. 

Security

AWS provides features that you can use to increase security for the resources in your VPC. 
Security groups allow inbound and outbound traffic for associated resources, such as EC2 instances. 
Network ACLs allow or deny inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level. 
For using a ACL see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Scenario1.html#nacl-rules-scenario-1

Your VPC comes with a default security group. 
An instance that's launched into the VPC is automatically associated with the default security group if you don't specify a different security group during launch. 
You can add specific rules to the default security group, but the rules may not be suitable for other instances that you launch into the VPC. 
Instead, we recommend that you create a custom security group for your web server.

For this scenario, create a security group named WebServerSG. 
When you create a security group, it has a single outbound rule that allows all traffic to leave the instances. 
You must modify the rules to enable inbound traffic and restrict the outbound traffic as needed. 
You specify this security group when you launch instances into the VPC. 









